# DSA_Projects
This portfolio showcases some of the projects I have created. Every now and then I make revisions to my code to make each game potentially, better. As you can see, I love building games.
Below, I talk a bit about my journey and thought processes when creating them.

#1 : Bank Simulator
I first learnt how to code a bank simulator during one of my coding classes. I am usually an online student but because I was due to attend an award ceremony on said day, I attended a make up class, in person. I usually use my laptop for classes but on that day, my account was inaccessible as I had forgotton my password (I remember it now). Therefore, I used a temporary account in one of the computers in the centre. During the class, we learnt how to code a 'Bank Simulator'. At the end of the lesson, I was instructed to return home to code the Bank Simulator on on my usual account. I started coding, only to realise that it wasn't easy to replicate a 40-line code when a teacher isn't guiding you! Neither was recalling the main points which was taught during the lesson! I keyed in the usual variables and prompts. After adding in the key lines of the code, I coded the actions, each using 'if loops','if else loops','print(...)',checking if variables were larger than others and subtracting and adding integers. In the end, I only had one problem - When I keyed in 'Exit', the programme would repeatedly print "Have a nice day".I knew I had to troubleshoot so I added a break at the end of programme which fixed the problem easily.

#2 : Safe Cracker
I created Safe Cracker on Scratch at first, beacause my mother asked if I could replicate one of the modules in her favourite game (Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego?) which she played when she was younger. After I finished it, my mother asked me to code it in Python to show my flair for coding across the diverse coding platforms or rather, languages. I readily took up the challenge, mostly because I like to make her happy (and I do what I am told!) At first,it was smooth-sailing, until I tried it out for the first time. Although I tried to code it in a way where the user gets three chances, I was only given one. On the rare occasion where I solved the safe's code, I was prompted to guess the second digit again. It was only after repeated trial and error that I realised I was missing things, had unneccessary lines of code and had nested loops which would always or never repeat. I immediately hashtaged my entire code (which makes the programme skip the code) and started from scratch (no pun intended!). I kept things simple instead of overthinking things which would make it harder to execute. When my code didn't work, I kept tinkering with it, checking what was wrong, whether it was the lack of commands, placement of codes etc. In the end,I changed the python version of 'Safe Cracker' from the Scratch version by avoiding leaving the game to chances but increasing the level of dificulty of guessing each digit and the number of chances given and finally I was satisfied with my work.

#3 : Battle
Not only is 'Battle' the newest game I have created, but it is also the game I feel is my best effort, yet. At a young age,
I expressed an interest in becoming a gamer. It was my mother who told me that I could make a living by creating games for me and others to play instead. She signed me up for classes when I was 7 and continued to support my vision. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is how I started coding. I only created 'Battle' on 1st July 2026 but it is the project which I was the most dedicated to. For me, it was the start of my career as a coder, knowing that from the simple game of 'Battle' I would eventually code much better games with graphics, not a mere text-adventure game. I started coding 'Battle' thinking it would not be difficult, but little did I know, I couldn't have been more wrong. I realised halfway through coding the game that I would need to add in commands that I hadn't learnt yet. It took a great deal of research on my part (Google to the rescue!). When I actually finished the game, I still ha da desire for it to be better. I created levels, increasing the enemy's health and attacks and implemented a scoring system. Little by little, I reinvented my game with occasional help to finally complete 'Battle'. I was very proud of myself, having completed my first adventure game!
